# ADR-1: Code Generation

## Context

Serializing and deserializing JSON in Java works best when performing it to/from plain old java objects (POJOs).
While it is possible to serialize into generic `JsonNode` or `Map` objects this results in untyped values that
must be referenced via String keys, meaning the compiler is limited in what it can check for us.

The classes required for JSON serialization and deserialization are reptitive and error prone to write by hand.
[Immutables](https://immutables.github.io/) helps to some extent, but there are still many classes and fields to be written.

The [Discord API documentation](https://discordapp.com/developers/docs/intro) is mostly consistent with how it documents
the JSON structures it returns and accepts.

Code generation is often difficult to use with IDEs.
Code is often referring to classes that will not be committed, so we depend upon the IDE to generate these classes
so that useful messages can be presented to the developer.

## Decision

We will use code generation to generate the POJOs to be used for JSON serialization and deserialization.

We will generate classes that make use of Immutables.

## Consequences

The risk of errors when transcribing the Discord API are reduced.
The specifications can by copy/pasted directly from the documentation and used as the source for code generation.

By using Immutables we reduce the amount of code we must generate.
For example, Immutables will provide with us with implementations of `equals` and `hashCode`,
along with a builder for each class.

Inconsistencies in the documentation format mean some manual changes are needed after copy/paste.
Care must be taken in managing these manual changes if (when) the Discord API is updated.

Difficulties in working with an IDE should not be undersold, but Immutables already requires working with code generation.
By limiting code generation to ErisCasper-Data we reduce the difficulties for developers working on ErisCasper.java

